Yes, Public Library.
We intend to be making some history tonight in front of a very select group of the library's friends.
And we are about Mrs. Rowerton and Dr. Zaytsev and I to sign a very, very important agreement that will link the National Library of Russia and the New York Public Library in important new ways.
If you didn't take the opportunity to read either in Russian or in English the text of the agreement that we have posted outside,
you will find copies of it at your place at dinner.
So you can either read it then or take it home.
And when we do go into dinner, we'll have a chance to exchange toasts, which is a very important part of Russian culture and of American culture.
And I'm very pleased to say that in my
three years in the office of the New York Public Library, this is the first agreement of this kind that I've signed.
And doing so gives me very great pleasure, because it was only in November that Mr. Walker, the director of all the research libraries and I, had a chance with our families to be the guests of Dr. Zaita and of his family.
And for me, I got to fulfill a great dream that I've had ever since I was 18 years old.
And that was to see Voltaire's library and to hold some of his books in my hands.
Because as I think everyone knows, Catherine bought Voltaire's library after his death.
And all 7,200 volumes are there.
Now, before you leave this room this evening, Edward Kasenek, who is the curator of this wonderful division, can show you in the display case a letter written by my predecessor 75 years ago, who was the first director to visit what is now the National Library of Russia.
And in his report,
He said the highlight of his trip was to see Voltaire's lockdown.
So we hope to work together on the basis of this agreement, on the basis of our friendship, and on the basis of our colleagueship for many, many years to come.
I must say that it's a historical event for our library.
As you know, 75 years ago, the director of the New York Public Library visits our library.
And during this time, it was called State Public Library.
But the visits of our leaders, of our chiefs, is not the only thing that connects our libraries.
But a very important thing is that both our libraries have great funds of historical materials.
And at the same time, the goal for both our libraries
is the future and we're ready to develop new technologies.
And the present agreement will give us a chance to work with the materials from the past and with the technologies of the future.
And I hope the cooperation between the two major libraries in the world will be very fruitful.
Thank you.
We'll be signing four copies of the agreement, two in motion and two in motion, so each library will have a sentence to keep.
Thank you very much.